TEAM CONFLICT RESOLUTION PLAN


This plan can help you identify how you’ll communicate, address tension, and support one another throughout the project. The aim is not to avoid conflict, but to handle it constructively and early, so trust and collaboration are maintained.


What values/principals could you outline for working together? Eg. assume good intent, show up to meetings…




How/when will you give each other feedback during the project? (talk about the different needs you might have around this as a group)




How will you make decisions together? (consensus, majority, rotating leads, other?)



How will you ensure that everyone in your team has an opportunity to feel included and contribute effectively? How will you remind each other of your agreements if you feel they are not being upheld?



What routines will you put in place to ensure consistent pro-active communication between team members?




When will you schedule breaks?




What days will you work, and what days will you take a break?


How will you use Non Violent Communication (NVC) techniques? Can you remind each other of what these are.


	
If tension arises between team members, how will it be raised? (e.g., direct conversation, mediated check-in, group discussion). Who can help facilitate or mediate if needed? 


How will you incorporate regular (wellbeing) check ins? When and how will you do this?


	
How will you share your wellbeing needs with each other as they arise?




How can celebrate wins and acknowledge effort together? How can you ensure everyone’s contributions are seen and valued, including quieter ones?


Stress Profiles
You may wish to share and populate for each group member (using exercise from Human Skills Deep Dive Week ….)
EXAMPLE:
Stressed: I become reserved, less communication
What helps: taking a break, going for a walk, talking through stuff
Needs: good planning around times and hours we want to spend working on the app
Availability: 4-8pm weekdays
Student #1 (name):
Stressed:
What helps:
Needs:
Availability:
